The republic of Arbor claims the land east of the [[Arboreal River]] and south of the [[Pinewood Channel]]. It is the most populous nation in the region; its capital, [[Doveport]], is the most populous city. It is divided into six states: Pinewood Hill, Wilros, River City, Doveport, South Arbor, and the Wetlands. Arbor’s government is allied with both [[Siarki]] and [[Destora]].

Arbor is a parliamentary federal republic. Voters elect a State Governor for their region of their city or state, who joins the State Council to convene with the Head of State over political and economic decisions. The Head of State is the State Governor that represents the most people; this is usually the State Governor (and effective mayor) of Doveport. Each State Governor legislates and enforces their state’s laws. The Head of State also legislates federal laws, which supersede state laws. Arbor is also a democratic socialist republic; the elected officials distribute production and property across all citizens according to need. This is done through the Welfare Index: a chart of needs and luxuries which the government may provide depending on the nation’s overall economy.

Culturally, Arbor is highly diverse, especially in Doveport due to its high immigration rate. The [Yarla culture](Yarla%20Culture.md) and [language](Yarla.md) are nonetheless most prominent in the region; it is the de facto national language. Religions vary broadly in the city but lean toward [[Aetherianism]] in more suburban areas.