The city-state of Destora covers the entire middle area of the [[Arboreal River Valley]].

The city itself is situated on a particularly broad bend of the [[Arboreal River]]. It was founded as a trading post between the [[Northern Forest Alliance]] and the southern nations. Destora is an ally of [[Arbor]] but an adversary of [[Siarki]].

Destora is a capitalist nation with a small, unimposing government. It is a minarchy, in which the government primarily exists just to enforce law, especially property law. Most of the tax this government collects, which is nonetheless a small amount overall, comes from larger businesses; small businesses are unburdened in their growth until they start dominating their markets. The government itself consists mostly of the military, police, and judges of Destora. This relatively new nation lacks a constitution, relying almost solely on property law for its legislation.

The nation flourishes economically, holding the largest GDP in the entire region. It is known for its caravans, its trains, its diverse marketplaces, its agriculture, and the jewelry and metalwork it exports. It bottlenecks trade between the [N.F.A.](Northern%20Forest%20Alliance.md) and the rest of the valley, crippling N.F.A.’s economy while empowering its own. In response, Siarki has sanctioned the Arboreal River, preventing Destora from trading directly with Dhonharo or with nations outside of the region. Arbor upholds this embargo as an obligation to Siarki despite its alliance with Destora.

The bend in the Arboreal River near the center of the nation holds Destora's capital city. It is split between West Destora south of the bend, and East Destora north of the bend. Both have a major rail depot and multiple harbors. Homes are tightly packed and sometimes stacked, each with different properly laws its families enforce. Many homes double as a workshop or store.