Siarki is the name of both the nation and its capital city.

The society of Siarki consists of its eponymous capital and two nearby cities. Siarki includes the capital as well as [[{NORTH_SIARKI}]] and [[Ikishi]]. Siarki is a strong ally of [[Arbor]]. Yet, the Siar government greatly resents Arbor’s other close ally, [[Destora]].

The city of Siarki was founded by [N.F.A.](Northern%20Forest%20Alliance.md) expat naturalists, professors, authors, and scientists as six guilds focused on art, science, engineering, and technology. Today, most critters in the nation of Siarki, especially within the capital city, are of [Ruti culture](Ruti%20Culture.md) and worship [[Kashada]]: a prophetic robot built long ago, which resembles a critter.

The capital city is a communist city; the government owns everything inside the city’s walls and provides for all residents. It is known in part for the [[Light Wall]]: a large concrete wall with stripes of illuminated glass encompassing the northern, southern, and eastern parts of the city. The city also owns [[New Hope Island]] in conjunction with Arbor.

The nation of Siarki as a whole, including parts of the city outside of the Light Wall, is highly socialist; its government provides all necessities for its citizens, who distribute it. Local Managers perform surveys and censuses of their regions and enforce legislation. The technocratic Primary Administration consists of governors who are experts in their particular fields of governing; for example, the Transportation Administer is necessarily a critter with experience in transportation: an urban designer, a conductor, etc. The Upper Administration oversees the Primary Administration and intervenes when necessary; the public is usually not even aware of this administration. Finally, the Tertiary Administration, often based in Ikishi, consists of to-be governors ready to take the place of a Primary Administrator; they are practically trainees to their counterparts in the Primary Administration.

Siarki lacks political democracy. Citizens have no opportunities to vote on governors or legislation, though they can influence their Local Managers through censuses and polls. The government is immensely bureaucratic, so they send many of these censuses. Although it runs banks for foreign nations, Siarki itself does not use currency; rather, it provides allowances for its citizens to spend on any luxuries that the government deems unessential. (Both inside and outside the capital city, the government ensures that citizens receive all essential goods and services.) In turn, citizens are expected to meet a quota of work-hours to keep their benefits and citizenship.

Despite its socialist government, the nation of Siarki has the second-highest GDP in the [[Arboreal River Valley]]. They are significant contributors to the industries of pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, motor engines, and banking. They also receive a high revenue from patents and education, thanks to the cultural value in inventiveness and the presence of the [[University Siarki]]. Ikishi and the southern part of the city of Siarki both receive a considerable amount of revenue from tourism and religious pilgrimage.